>> Steve Kinney: We know how to
style an individual component, but
turns out most pages tend not
to be just one component, right?
Usually you have more than one component
and you need to lay them out in some way,
shape or form.
And we've got a bunch of ways to do that.
We've got some of the older, tried and
true margin kind of
based layout techniques.
We've got things like flexbox,
we've got things like grid.
All of those we will take a tour of today.
But let's kind of we'll do them in,
I think, I guess,
technically chronological order.
Cool, so I think I have another one here
called Card List, where my card that I
just made, this is the only reason
we pulled in any framework,
the card that I just made, I can use
here without having to do it again.
And what's the thing that jumps
out at us about these cards if
we look at them all together?
They sort of stack on top
of each other and they're.
Yeah, they're kinda gross, right?
I'd like to let them
breathe a little bit here.
So there's a bunch of tools for this.
You can probably think of them
in your head already, but
we'll talk about one of them
that you kind of get for
free with Tailwind,
which is just a little CSS trick.
So I'm gonna go as opposed to the website.
Let's go into that card-list.
And you can see as soon as I put
away some ui that all card list
is the div that happens
to have four cards in it.
And Tailwind gives you some utilities
that you could totally write yourself in
CSS but are just kind of
somewhat nice in this sense.
So one of the ones that we
can use is the space-y.
The nice part is you can hover over it and
see what it does.
Visually, we can see exactly what it does,
right?
If we hover over the CSS,
we can kind of get a slightly
better sense where if
it's not the last child,
put some margin on the bottom or
end in this case.
And so that basically applies it.
So it's all of them, but this one
gets no margin at the bottom, right?
And that's just using this looks
a little bit squirrely, but
basically it's saying for
each one where it's not the last child.
And there's ways you can
do this with stars too.
Go ahead and add some spacing in
between all of them, right, and
you can just very quickly and
easily you can guess what space x does,
right, not the company,
it does between if they're horizontally.
So if you had a bunch of buttons,
you could do space x2 and
put some space between
each of those buttons.
It has another fun friend,
which is gonna look a little
weird with these cards,
but we'll get the point,
which is divide-y and
we have to do divide over here.
Perhaps they don't work with the live
coded cards, but that's fine.
We have examples.
We saw before there's space-x, space-y.
It'll add some space in there.
Here's the horizontal version
with some random buttons.
Effectively, it's a little more
complicated than these days,
but this would also effectively
show us what we're doing as well.
Divide just puts a solid color
in between each of them.
So we've got the divider,
we've got the overall background color for
the div, so on and so forth.
I have never actually purposely
used divide on purpose, ever.
I use the space all the time.
You can change the color of the dividers,
but
basically it puts something you can
kind of see in between each of them.
I've always just used space, but
you can mix them up if you're like,
what about flexbox?
Flexbox also works in this case and
we'll look at flexbox in a second.
There are some times where the problem
with flexbox is that it makes everything
inside the flex container a flex item,
which could change things
in ways you don't want.
A lot of times this,
because it's just adding margins
will get you most of the way there.
So this is here if you need it,
but if you're like,
I'd rather just use flexbox, I get it.
That's cool, you should do that.
I do that too.
All right, If I'm just doing it to
add some space I will use this tool,
if I feel like I'm also doing
a bunch of other flex stuff.
No harm in using flexbox, but if you find
yourself like, I wanted to use flexbox,
but now I'm doing this other stuff,
and I was about to.
Every time you think you need to reach for
some kind of custom CSS,
you probably don't.
There's probably something.
And so if flexbox feels more
appropriate for you, go for it.
But if you're like, I couldn't use flexbox
because reason I needed something, so
then I had to write my,
you probably don't.
Right, it's like most things that I think
about with most libraries or frameworks,
which is if you feel that pain,
everyone else probably feels that pain, or
you're doing something wrong.
But if you feel that pain,
everyone else feels that pain.
And if everyone else feels that pain,
there's probably something in
the library that does it for you.
Or there's also the chance
you've gone to a weird place and
you need to rethink things.
But generally speaking, that applies.
And we are gonna play with that
card spacing multiple times.
We'll take a look at it with the spacing.
Let's later, we'll go and
change it to flexbox.
After that, we'll go change it to grid,
just for funsies,
and play along with it all the way and
see how all of those apply.
So that's kind of our first
foray in there as well.